If you are solely optimizing for
productivity, you are increasing your
chances of being depressed and burnt
out. In this video, I sit down with a
woman and we explore how working with
downtime can increase your productivity
and decrease your stress. And along the
way, you'll be invited to do some
experiments.
When I started my first company, it I I
had no idea what I was doing at all. And
so, I was incredibly stressed. A friend
of mine said, "Hey, you should go to
this traditional Chinese medicine person
who lived in I think he'd lived in
Taiwan for 20 or 30 years and uh so I
went to him and I had no idea about
traditional Chinese medicine at the
time. I thought it was all fooy, but
this friend of mine I respected. So I I
went and um so he's giving me the
treatment, giving me herbs. And I said,
well, if you were a western doctor, what
would you do? Mostly as a way to justify
like, okay, he knows what he's doing.
And um what he said to me was, "Oh,
western doctors, what they would do is
you'd be stressed and then you'd start
drinking coffee and then you drink a lot
of coffee and then eventually you would
go into depression and then they would
give you anti-depressants." And this was
before, by the way, this was before
there were things like anti-anxiety
meds. So this was when there was just
Prozac coming onto the market. And I was
like, "What?" And he said, "Yeah." So
basically the way it works is that your
adrenal fatigue happens. you you're
running off adrenaline. You don't have
enough adrenaline. So, you use coffee
that amps up your adrenaline and then
eventually your adrenals just fail on
you and then you get depressed and so
then you get anti-depressants. And so,
he gave me some herbs that were to help
me refurbish or like reinvigorate my
adrenals. But it it started to really
hit me what's happening there.
Especially as I became a venture
capitalist and I saw CEO after CEO when
they finished with their company, they
became depressed.
They would finish the company and then
they would I would call it the pajama
period. They would sit in their pajamas
for two years and do nothing except for
beat themselves up for not being
relevant.
That was like the typical thing. So
what I realized in that was that there's
stress and then if the stress is
unadressed, if you don't get the
downtime, if you don't have the
parasympathetic nervous system come
online enough, you'll get to burnout
and then the burnout will lead to
depression.
The depression is a whole another story.
There's a whole bunch of things that
keep depression in place and there's
things that can create depression in you
like a critical voice in your head
that's constantly beating you up so
you're constantly under adrenal attack.
So there's other components to it but
they're highly linked highly linked that
it goes from stress to burnout to
depression especially if it's completely
unadressed. So if you're having stress
it's not to say oh stress is bad because
it'll lead to burnout and then it'll
lead to depression. It's far more about
okay, how do I create a stress that's
actually very positive in my life,
right? So, it's a life that is
completely unstressful is doesn't feel
productive or meaningful or bountiful
and one that is completely stressful
doesn't work either. So, it's more about
how do I balance my stress? And there's
a whole bunch of tools that we we can go
into to get to that. But if you don't
recognize that it goes from stress to
burnout to depression, you don't have as
much motivation to get off that train
and to really address the stress right
away while it's happening.
So, in this guided experiment, you're
going to get to feel what it's like in
your body when there's stress that is
helpful and when there's stress that is
harmful to you. And it's really easy,
but the first thing we need to do is
just get comfortable. So, close your
eyes, relax, get your body comfortable.
Perfect. All right. So,
what I need you to do with your eyes
closed is to just remember a time when
you were feeling stress, but it felt
great.
Maybe you were playing pickle ball or
you were playing any sport and rushing
to the net or
you were in the kitchen and you were
inflow cooking and everything was
happening at once.
And just feel what it was in your body
to feel that stress.
the stress that felt great, that was
enlivening.
And now I want you to think of a time
when you were feeling stress and it
sucked.
Maybe you were trying to get work done
on time or maybe you were worried about
taking a test.
Maybe you were scared somebody was going
to be upset with you.
And really let that land in your body.
Really feel what it was like when stress
sucked.
Okay. And now just take a deep breath,
do a little shake, and go back to the
feeling of stress in your body. That
time when stress felt great.
Great. Now take another breath, shake it
off a little bit, and go back to when
stress felt like crap,
when it just sucked.
And feel that in your body.
Great. And notice that when stress feels
horrible, it's really resisted. And when
stress feels great, it's really not
resisted.
And take that
experience and bring it to something
that you're stressed about in your life
right now. Whatever it is, maybe it's
about your boss or your husband or your
kids, just bring some form of stress
that's in your life right now. Bring it
to the to the front. Let yourself feel
it. Think about the thoughts that make
you feel that stress.
And then feel what it's like not to
resist that stress, to allow it to land
in your body the same way
that you did when stress felt great.
[Music]
I'm dumbfounded that people are
optimizing for productivity all the
time, but nobody's optimizing for
downtime. I'm also kind of grateful
because it makes me a little nauseous.
Like, let's optimize for downtime. But
it's an amazing thing. The idea that we
can have growth or productivity without
downtime is an amazing thought process.
and how we think about our downtime
totally changes the way that we
transform or the way that we're
productive. So, physically, this is
pretty easy to say. Everybody knows that
if you're a weightlifter, you can't lift
weights 24/7 and get ripped. That there
are actually forms of lifting weights
where you're lifting like 20 minutes
three or four times a week to get a lot
of muscles.
So, it's not about how much you lift.
It's also about how you rest and how
much you rest. So we know that
economically it's the same thing. There
was a guy who wrote a book called the
black swan and he talks about how in any
complex system that you need to
have
ups and downs. You have to have this
natural up and down. And if you stop, if
you use monetary policy to stop the
downs, all you're doing is just creating
a bigger down
later on. Forest fires are the same way.
Complex system. You need to have forest
fires come through every once in a
while. If you stop them, then when the
forest fires do come through, they just
burn everything at extremely hot,
extremely just totally destructive
instead of the forest fires that used to
happen every 5 years through the redwood
forests. So in any complex system, you
need to have the on, the off, and the
the the the production and the downtime.
And the way that we do downtime totally
makes a difference to our productivity
and to our ability to transform. Is
downtime kind of down? Are you getting
dopamine hits by scrolling? Blah blah
blah blah blah blah. Or is downtime down
like you're just doing nothing? Are you
just sitting on the front porch enjoying
the sky? or you downtime is just
watching 6 hours of television and you
still get all the adrenaline and you
still get all the stimulation. So what
what's the downtime? How do you make use
of your downtime is an amazing question.
And what I noticed is the the optimal
downtime luckily is pleasure, is
silence, is
nothingness, is
walking in nature.
This is going to be an exercise on
feeling pleasure.
One of the greatest definitions of
pleasure that I've ever heard is
the noticing of sensations moving in
your body. Just that simple thing. Just
noticing the sensations moving in your
body is pleasure.
So, let's start off. Do whatever you
need to do for the next 10, 15,
30 seconds to get yourself comfortable.
As a matter of fact, anytime during this
whole
exercise
that you can find a way to make yourself
more comfortable, you get to do it. You
get to make yourself more and more and
more and more and more comfortable.
Can be a stretch or a breath in or a
state of mind that you want to inhabit,
a relaxation,
a letting something down, a letting
something in,
a receiving, whatever.
you can do to get a little more
comfortable.
And we're going to start this exercise
without any movement,
just the noticing.
So there's sensations right now
happening on the bottom of your feet.
You can feel your feet touching
something. Maybe a sock,
maybe the air, maybe your bed.
The soles of your feet, they have
sensation. You're just going to take
pleasure in that sensation.
Maybe it's like a little tingle that you
can take pleasure in or
certain kind of heat, certain kind of
movement. You can just take pleasure in
that. That's the job is just
take some pleasure in the sensations in
the bottom of your feet.
And now pick any other part of your body
that you want. any part that you want.
Maybe it's an arm or
your cheeks,
ears, and just take pleasure in them by
being aware of the sensation that's
moving and enjoying that sensation.
It's just simply enjoying and taking
pleasure in this experience of
aliveness.
And one of the easiest ways
To take pleasure in something is to take
pleasure in your breath.
We breathe all the time.
But if you really pay attention to your
breath, you bring your attention to the
sensations that are moving in your
breath.
How much pleasure can you take in the
next breath?
The fresh air coming in,
the old air leaving.
The way the oxygen fills
your lungs,
makes your body tingle.
And now you could manipulate your breath
to make it even more pleasurable.
How deep of a breath is the most
pleasurable breath?
How much
exhale is the most pleasurable exhale?
Is it most of the way? Is it all the
way? Is it further than all the way?
And what's the sound that you can make
on the inhale that creates the most
pleasure the most pleasurable sensation?
Is it a
What's that inhale sound that creates
the most pleasure? Maybe it's silence.
Maybe it's subtle.
And how about that exhale sound that
creates just a lot of pleasure in the
system?
Is it
or is it
Play with the sounds of the inhale and
the exhale
and find a way to make each breath even
more pleasurable.
Keep making that sound.
Keep finding a way to breathe that
increases the pleasure.
And know this is available to you at any
time.
This level of pleasure is always there,
always available with each of your
breaths.
And you can notice as you're breathing
in and breathing out and taking
pleasure, as you're feeling the
sensations in your body move and the
pleasure of that, notice that feeling of
safety is expanding.
There's a calmness.
All happening because you are just
taking pleasure in life.
There's a slowing down.
There is an aliveness.
All happening
because you are just taking pleasure in
what is happening.
The sensations moving, the breath that's
occurring.
And you hear people say, "I want to feel
good." Well, here you are feeling good.
How good do you want to feel? How long
do you want to feel this good?
And you might notice a little resistance
to the pleasure creeping in some way.
Oh, it's getting long. Oh, this is kind
of boring. Or and I want you to take
pleasure in that resistance. Oh, that
friction, that sensation.
Just breathe into it the way you would
breathe into a deep tissue massage.
Relax around it. And
yeah,
that's it.
You're taking pleasure in whatever
resistance is there
by just
opening up and allowing it.
And now we're ready to move.
It's time to move.
You're going to do it in the most
pleasurable way.
And you're not going to forget your
breath.
And you're going to stretch if that's
what creates the pleasure.
Going to gently wiggle.
If that creates the pleasure,
you're going to wiggle your fingers and
toes. If that creates the pleasure,
finding just the most pleasurable speed,
you're just going to keep on moving and
keep on breathing and you're going to
keep on expanding into
deeper
and deeper pleasure. Oh.
It's the simple pleasure of being alive,
of being in this body,
of being able to feel. Oh, it is so
good.
It is just so good.
If you want to deepen in, just feel any
resistance that might be coming up and
just go right into it and take pleasure
in that resistance.
Don't fight it. Don't fight it. Just
Yeah.
Expand
into it and around that resistance.
How much pleasure can you take in that
sensation?
Every sensation that's happening, how do
you stretch and lean into
and breathe into
and allow for
the pleasure
and don't forget to receive. Oh, there's
so much pleasure in receiving.
It's just like really quiet. It's in the
background and you can just feel
life and you can just receive it. Just
receive
that aliveness that you are feeling. So
much pleasure in that receiving.
It requires nothing of you.
You can just relax and feel it coming in
and moving through so much pleasure and
just
receiving
and feeling life.
A so good.
[Music]
It's just such a simple question. Is
this going to be an exercise or is this
going to be a lifestyle?
Are you going to take pleasure in a 100
breaths today or just 10?
What would you enjoy most?
If you want to recharge as quickly as
possible,
it is really about reducing stimulation.
So, if you want to reduce your stress,
how you do your downtime is is critical.
If you found this video helpful, please
subscribe. And if you want more tools
for reducing stress, you can go here or
click on the link below.